James Dolan goes on the offensive...
January 27, 2023 View Online
Good morning. TIL there is such a thing as “burrito season.” Chipotle said yesterday it’s hiring 15,000 employees
to prep for “burrito season”—the period from March–May that represents its busiest sales stretch on the calendar.
So if we’re getting this right…
March–May: burrito season
June–August: ribs season
September: soup season
October: spooky season
November: Soup Season 2: The Return of the Soup
December–February: cuffing season
—Neal Freyman, Jamie Wilde, Max Knoblauch, Matty Merritt
MARKETS
Nasdaq 11,512.41 +1.76%
S&P 4,060.43 +1.10%
Dow 33,949.41 +0.61%
10-Year 3.497% +4.9 bps
Bitcoin $23,069.00 -0.02%
Tesla $160.27 +10.97%
*Stock data as of market close, cryptocurrency data as of 2:00am ET. Here's what these numbers mean.
Markets:  The positive vibes coming out of Tesla’s earnings helped propel
the stock market higher yesterday—as did Q4 GDP numbers, which we’ll get to in a bit.
All three major indexes are on track to close out the week, and the month of January,
in the green. (Side note: How is January almost over?)
ECONOMY
How’s the economy doing?
Larry David saying
Curb Your Enthusiasm/HBO via Giphy
Larry David’s favorite tagline also happens to be an apt description of the economy right now: It’s pretty, pretty good.
US gross domestic product (GDP), the broadest measure of economic activity, grew at a 2.9% annualized pace
in Q4 2022, which topped expectations. And it’s rock-solid proof that the recession we’ve been warned
about for months ain’t here yet. Not only has the US economy regained all the lost output from the Covid recession,
but it’s also returned to its growth trajectory from before the pandemic. Real GDP per capita, which factors in inflation,
has reached its highest level ever. Is this a sign of a “soft landing”? Q4’s strong GDP numbers add fuel
to the argument that the Fed could actually pull off the tricky “soft landing”—where it knocks down inflation
through interest rate hikes without sending economic growth into reverse. The resilient labor market is cooperating:
Despite all the headlines about layoffs, jobless claims fell last week to their lowest point since April 2022.
But don’t write off a recession just yet Economists combing through the GDP report found a few warning signs
that indicate a recession remains a clear and present danger. Here are a few:
Consumers are pulling back. Personal consumption, which represents about 70% of all US output, came in below forecasts,
signaling Americans aren’t reaching for their wallets like they had been earlier in the pandemic.
Growth in business inventories also suggest a more cautious consumer. The housing market got pummeled.
The sector shrank at a 27% annualized pace last quarter as higher mortgage rates put home-buying and construction on ice.
Companies are slowing down their spending. In Q3, business investment grew 6.2%; in Q4, just 0.7%.
Bottom line: The US economy is in a fluid state right now, being tugged in different directions by large, complex forces.
Even the people who study it 50 hours a week only speak in probabilities (e.g., “there’s an X% chance Y will happen”).
When execs and economists say the outlook is “uncertain”—they mean it.—NF
TOGETHER WITH FACET WEALTH
Make your money stress-free in 2023
Stressing about your finances is so last year. Getting financial guidance for all aspects of your life?
Now *that’s* more like it.
A Facet
membership can help you get ahead and stay ahead, even if you don’t know what your year will look like financially.
Memberships include a dedicated CFP® professional (the highest possible certification) who works with
you one-on-one to set your money up for success. And best of all, it’s an affordable fixed fee, so there
will be no surprise$.
January 31 is your LAST chance to get 2 months *free , so sign up today .
You can also get a free Financial Wellness Score by taking this quick quiz . See how you stack up.
WORLD
Tour de headlines Monopoly board game Scott Olson/Getty Images
More companies announce layoffs: And it’s not just the high-flying tech firms doing it.
The toymaker Hasbro cut about 15% of its global workforce
after its holiday-season sales dropped 17% from the prior year.
And IBM, Dow, S&P, and 3M all announced significant layoffs
this week, citing the uncertain economic environment we just discussed.
Ex-Memphis police officers charged with murder. Five former officers of the Memphis Police Department were charged
with second-degree murder and other crimes over the killing of Tyre Nichols,
a Black man who died three days after a violent traffic stop.
Shelby County District Attorney Steve Mulroy said that a video of the traffic stop shows the five ex-police officers,
all of whom are Black, severely beating Nichols, and asserted that they were all responsible for his death.
That video will be released to the public this evening.
14 reasons why AI should write online content. BuzzFeed CEO Jonah Peretti told employees yesterday that the company
will work with OpenAI (ChatGPT’s creator) to help pump out “AI inspired content” such as its patented quizzes.
That memo sent BuzzFeed’s battered stock up 120%...all the way to above $2/share.
While Peretti and investors are jazzed about incorporating AI into content, BuzzFeed will have to tread carefully:
The tech site CNET was recently forced to apologize after people pointed out that its AI-written articles
made factual errors and plagiarized humans' work.
EDUCATION
ChatGPT goes to school...and passes
A robot wearing a grad cap
Dianna “Mick” McDougall, Sources: Getty Images, OpenAI
If robots rise up against humanity, it might be because we’re making them take a bunch of tests.
ChatGPT, the much-hyped AI text generator from OpenAI, passed medical , business , and law
exams this month and scored higher than many human students.
ChatGPT recently scored above a passing grade on…
The three-part US Medical Licensing Exam
A Wharton Business School exam—the final test of the MBA program’s Operations Management course
Four University of Minnesota Law School exams in Constitutional Law, Employee Benefits,
Taxation, and Torts (not the dessert)
These tests contained a mix of short-answer, essay, and multiple choice questions—and ChatGPT received passing,
but not gold-star, grades in all of them. Examiners noted that ChatGPT was much better at writing than math, which…same.
Big picture: SmarterChild 2.0’s success has educators debating AI’s role in the classroom and how to best assess
student learning in the new ChatGPT era. While some want to keep AI tools out of class by, say, requiring students
to write out work by hand, others say we should embrace the new tech as a support tool, like a tutor or calculator.—JW
TECH
James Dolan defends his walled Garden
James Dolan
Photo Illustration: Dianna “Mick” McDougall, Source: Getty Images
“If you sue me, I’m not going to let you see Billy Joel live.”
That’s essentially how James Dolan, the CEO of Madison Square Garden Entertainment and billionaire owner of the Knicks,
defended the company’s controversial use of facial recognition at its venues.
In a rare TV interview yesterday, Dolan claimed that “the Garden has to defend itself,” and threatened to halt alcohol
sales at Rangers hockey games to generate negative publicity for regulators. “I don’t need the liquor,” he said.
What’s Dolan so riled up about? Remember when an attorney was escorted
out of Radio City Music Hall while attempting to see the Rockettes with her daughter? It’s about that—and broader
backlash over MSG’s alleged practice of using facial recognition tech to identify and ban lawyers employed at firms
involved in MSG-related cases from entering its venues.
New York has launched an investigation into MSG’s use of facial recognition tech, which has impacted 90 law firms,
according to NY Attorney General Letitia James.
Zoom out: Dolan might want to check his fortifications—they’re a bit porous. To evade the scanners, one lawyer
donned a disguise to attend a Jerry Seinfeld show in December.—MK
TOGETHER WITH VANTA
Vanta
Uncomplicate compliance. Thousands of SaaS companies trust Vanta to simplify (and speed up) compliance.
Vanta automates the pricey, long-winded process of prepping for SOC 2, ISO 27001, HIPAA, and many other frameworks.
Win more deals and demonstrate trust without breaking your piggy bank. Check out Vanta’s on-demand demo for more deets .
What kind of content do you wanna see in the cybersecurity + IT space?
Combating cyberattacks 🗞 Coverage of new tech
Data protection and monitoring
Security and compliance regulations
GRAB BAG
Key performance indicators The path of an asteroid passing near Earth NASA/JPL-CALTECH
Stat: An asteroid made one of the closest approaches
to Earth on record last night, skimming the planet’s orbit just 2,200 miles above the Pacific Ocean near Chile
(that’s closer than some satellites). The asteroid, named 2023 BU, is roughly the size of a U-Haul truck and poses
no threat, according to NASA. “It’s going to zoom past Earth, say hello, and move on,” a NASA engineer said.
Sounds like our ex.
Quote: “The word ‘mummy’ is not incorrect, but it is dehumanizing.”
Some museums want you to remember that mummies were once—a really long time ago—people, too. A trio of British museum
organizations said they will avoid using the word “mummy” whenever possible, and swap it out with “mummified remains
of” or “mummified person.” Meanwhile, the AP recommended a controversial language update of its own yesterday.
Watch: Why esports are flailing even as gaming explodes. (Morning Brew )
QUIZ
QuizGPT
Weekly news quiz
The feeling of getting a 5/5 on the Brew’s Weekly News Quiz has been compared to remembering you have
a new episode of Real Housewives to watch.
It’s that satisfying. Ace the quiz .
WHAT ELSE IS BREWING
The FBI
announced it disrupted a major hacking group and prevented it from collecting more than $130 million
in ransomware payments. “We hacked the hackers,” Deputy US Attorney General Lisa Monaco said.
Southwest Airlines
booked a net loss of $220 million in the fourth quarter due to its late-December meltdown.
Bed Bath & Beyond
once again warned of bankruptcy after it said it didn’t have sufficient cash to pay down its debt.
DoNotPay
called off its plan to equip a defendant in court with its “robot lawyer,” citing threats of jail time.
BREW'S BETS
Movie recs: You could take inspo from the Oscar nominee list, or…you could check out the best movies of 2022
on Letterboxd.
Time capsule: This video
came out a year ago this week.
Fully charged: HR pros know how hard it is to keep employees energized. HR Brew’s latest guide helps you kick workplace
burnout. Check it out . Prioritize your mental health: Taking care of yourself matters, and BetterHelp
can connect you to a licensed therapist who fits your needs within 48 hours. Get 25% off your first month
(up to $70 in savings) .*
*This is sponsored advertising content.
GAMES
The puzzle section
Picdoku: Zany Minor League mascots star in today’s picdoku. Play it here .
Friday puzzle
There are 10 elements on the periodic table whose names are five letters or fewer. How many can you list?
AROUND THE BREW
Optimize your time
Optimize your time
Find yourself working overtime because you’re spending your day in pointless meetings? Our $29 toolkit will teach you
techniques to optimize your work schedule, and provides customizable templates to take actionable steps. Shop now .
Did you know there have already been four major AI-related lawsuits since September 2022? Don’t miss out on
another tech story. Subscribe to Emerging Tech Brew .
SHARE THE BREW
Share Morning Brew
with your friends, acquire free Brew swag, and then acquire more friends as a result of your fresh Brew swag.
We’re saying we’ll give you free stuff and more friends if you share a link. One link.
Your referral count: 0
Click to Share
Or copy & paste your referral link to others:morningbrew.com/daily/r/?kid=d404fc54
ANSWER
Argon, Boron, Gold, Iron, Lead, Neon, Radon, Tin, Xenon, and Zinc.
✢ A Note From Facet Wealth
DISCLAIMER: Facet Wealth is an SEC Registered Investment Advisor headquartered in Baltimore, Maryland.
This is not an offer to sell securities or the solicitation of an offer to purchase securities.
This is not investment, financial, legal, or tax advice. *Two months free offer is only valid for an annual
fee paid at the time of signing. Offer expires January 31, 2023.
Written by Neal Freyman , Max Knoblauch , Jamie Wilde , and Matty Merritt
Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here .
{
    "Date": "Fri, 27 Jan 2023 05:50:06 -0500 (EST)",
    "From": "Morning Brew <crew@morningbrew.com>",
    "Subject": "\u2615 ChatGPT gets schooled",
}
Snippet:
James Dolan goes on the offensive... January 27, 2023 View Online | Sign Up |
Shop Morning Brew TOGETHER WITH Facet Wealth Good morning. TIL there is such a thing as “burrito season.” Chipotle said
Labels:
['UNREAD', 'CATEGORY_UPDATES', 'INBOX']
