What's next for that burning mansion...
January 26, 2023 View Online
Morning Brew
TOGETHER WITH Revela
Good morning. Welp—looks like we were wrong about the prospect of snow accumulation in NYC yesterday (was mostly miserable rain). Probably best to retire as meteorologists and stick to something we’re much better at: running courses that help you get better at your career.
Speaking of, the Business Essentials Accelerator, our eight-week online course on business fundamentals, is kicking off Feb. 6. Think of it as a streamlined Biz 101 course that’s both enjoyable and informative—kind of like this newsletter. Learn more here .
—Jamie Wilde, Max Knoblauch, Matty Merritt, Abby Rubenstein, Neal Freyman
MARKETS
Nasdaq
11,313.36
-0.18%
S&P
4,016.22
-0.02%
Dow
33,743.84
+0.03%
10-Year
3.448%
-1.2 bps
Bitcoin
$23,022.00
+0.02%
IBM
$140.76
-0.52%
*Stock data as of market close, cryptocurrency data as of 3:00am ET. Here's what these numbers mean.
Markets: Stocks finished out the day mixed
yesterday as investors continued to process that the corporate earnings season so far has also been…mixed. IBM’s stock, for example, dipped even though the company reported its biggest annual sales increase in a decade (but also joined its fellow tech companies in announcing layoffs).
NATION
Mass attacks of violence have a lot in common
The crime scene in Half Moon Bay, CA
Tayfun Coskun/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images
If it feels like recent US mass attacks have startlingly similar details, it’s because many of them do. A new study
from the Secret Service’s National Threat Assessment Center examined 173 public attacks occurring from 2016 to 2020 and found patterns that repeated from Uvalde, TX, to the back-to-back shootings in California this past weekend.
Some commonalities:
Who: Almost all attackers acted alone and were men. Though attackers ranged in age from 14 to 87, the average age skewed younger at 34.
What: Nearly 73% of attacks involved firearms, and most of those were fatal. The remaining attacks that didn’t involve firearms were mostly nonfatal.
Why: Nearly all attackers experienced a significant stressor, such as a loved one dying, in the five years prior to the attack, and 77% of them experienced one within a year. Half of the incidents were motivated by “perceived wrongs” in the workplace or at home.
The killing of seven people in Half Moon Bay, California, on Monday was described
by officials as an act of “workplace violence.”
Most attackers had similar red flags
The study says that nearly half of attackers had a history of misogyny and/or domestic violence—and that those behaviors “deserve increased attention” from law enforcement. Violent online posting and chatting can also signal an individual may commit an attack. The Uvalde, TX, shooter, for example, threatened
women online and shared graphically misogynistic content.
Nearly two-thirds of attackers said or did things so “objectively concerning” that the report says they “should have been met with an immediate response.” Many of these were even reported to law enforcement, employers, and others prior to the mass attack.
The report’s big takeaway? Recognizing shared patterns among past mass attacks early could help prevent future incidents.
Zoom out: Over 39 incidents of mass violence have already occurred in the US this year, and two incidents happened in California just this past week. Legislators are debating what laws they can pass
to slow or stop the momentum.—JW
WORLD
Tour de headlines M1 Abrams tanks being shipped David Hecker/Getty Images
Ukraine is getting new tanks. Both the US and Germany agreed yesterday to send tanks
to Ukraine as it fends off Russia’s invasion—something Ukraine has said it needs to win the war. The US will send 31 M1 Abrams tanks, while Germany will provide 14 Leopard 2 A6 models. Though Western allies have been arming Ukraine since the war began nearly a year ago, there was hesitation over whether sending tanks would be considered an escalation. And while President Biden stressed this move was “not an offensive threat to Russia,” Russia has stated that sending tanks will make the possibility of talks to end the war less likely.
Trump can shop on Facebook Marketplace again. Meta said yesterday former President Trump’s accounts on Instagram and Facebook will be reinstated
after the company suspended his accounts following the Jan. 6 attacks. Meta said Trump’s risk to public safety has “sufficiently receded” since then. Before being banned, Trump was the most followed person on Facebook. It’s not the only social network to welcome him back: Trump’s Twitter account was reinstated in November (though he has yet to post there, sticking to his own competitor, Truth Social…for now).
State abortion pill bans get challenged in court. Mifepristone manufacturer GenBioPro filed a federal lawsuit
yesterday seeking to have West Virginia’s ban on abortion pills deemed unconstitutional on the grounds that the FDA’s approval of the drug should trump state restrictions. More than half of all US abortions are medication abortions, according to the Guttmacher Institute, and questions concerning the legality of these abortions have proliferated since the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade. A separate suit also filed yesterday by a North Carolina doctor challenges that state’s ban, but abortion opponents have their own suit pending in Texas to try to overturn the FDA’s drug approval.
TOGETHER WITH REVELA
Meet your new skin savior
Revela
Did you know you start losing skin elasticity (aka the ability to stretch and bounce back into place) as early as your 20s? Thanks to Revela, you can now help restore your skin’s structure.
Kicking off their new skincare line is Fibroquin Essence, a revolutionary new formula featuring Fibroquin™, their proprietary, AI-discovered molecule that tackles one of the most challenging skin issues for aging skin : the loss of volume, tightness, and elasticity.
Fibroquin™ rejuvenates skin by supporting its collagen biopathway, enabling skin to remain lifted, toned, and supple without any irritation. In a clinical trial, 93% of participants showed a significant improvement in skin elasticity by week 8.
Get 15% off your first purchase here .
BUSINESS NEWS
Short seller firm targets world’s 4th-richest person
The Simpsons Mr. Burns
The Simpsons/20th Television Animation via Giphy
A US-based short seller has set its sights on a Goliath-sized target. The firm, Hindenburg Research, released a 100-page report on Tuesday alleging
that the Adani Group, led by the world’s fourth richest person—Gautam Adani—was “pulling the largest con in corporate history.”
According to Hindenburg, Adani Group (one of India’s largest business conglomerates that’s seen as “too big to fail,” given Indian taxpayers’ exposure to it) has run a “brazen stock manipulation and accounting fraud scheme” for decades, using shell entities to siphon off taxpayer money. Adani Group companies lost $12 billion in market value after the report’s release—something that, if you own a conglomerate, you don’t want to happen.
Adani himself dropped a whole spot on the world’s richest list, falling below Jeff Bezos and just out of the top three.
In response, Adani Group dismissed the allegations and accused Hindenburg of timing the report’s release in bad faith to undermine an upcoming stock sale.
What's at stake: This report makes Adani Group the largest target of Hindenburg Research, and it’s a test of the firm’s power. Hindenburg was relatively unknown until 2020, when its report on then-hot EV maker Nikola became a pillar in the government’s fraud case against the company’s founder.—MK
HOUSING
The viral house afire will live on as YouTube content
Tennessee house photo on fire next to sold sign.
Illustration: Francis Scialabba, Photo: Zillow
A $1.5 million Tennessee mansion went viral this week…despite its Zillow listing using a photo of it literally on fire. And in case you were wondering if buying homes is still hard: It’s already under contract .
The hopeful buyer, Mike Thakur, plans to vlog his restoration process, riding the property’s wave of internet virality and milking that charred house for as much content as possible.
The burnt home…sits on almost five acres of land in Franklin, TN, and includes a bunch of grand staircases, an outdoor kitchen, and a detached guesthouse—where Thakur and his family will live while they fix up the main manor. The house had a fire in September that caused significant damage, but in 2020 (pre-fire) it sold for $10 million, according to a press release from Newswires.
We don’t know how much the self-described content creator/serial entrepreneur is paying for the house, but it was only listed last Tuesday and had a lot of interest from potential buyers, according to the realtors.
Big picture: There’s also growing interest in non-burned down homes. Redfin data found that pending house sales in the US rose 3% last month, the first increase since October 2021. After a tumultuous year, housing demand seems to be rising slowly from the ashes.—MM
TOGETHER WITH SMARTASSET
SmartAsset
Make smart decisions. Life should be a balance of adventure and relaxation, not finances. Enter: working with a financial advisor . But choosing the wrong advisor could potentially wreak havoc on your retirement. Avoid these 7 common mistakes
when hiring one so you can get back to the balance that matters most.
GRAB BAG
Key performance indicators Parks and Recreation/NBC via Giphy
Stat: Corporate America may not be fully on board with pay transparency just yet (or maybe there are just a ton of jobs available right now in the $90,000 to $900,000 range), but the newest entrants to the workforce aren’t keen to put on real pants for multiple rounds of interviews only to discover the job pays less than their teenage babysitting gig. According to Adobe's Future Workforce Study, 85% of the 1,000 recent and soon-to-be college grads surveyed said they were less likely
to apply for a job if the salary range wasn’t in the job posting.
Quote: “Being homosexual isn’t a crime.”
Pope Francis called laws criminalizing homosexuality unjust during a wide-ranging interview
with the Associated Press, and said Catholic bishops who support them need to undergo “a process of conversion.” The pope, who despite previous statements hinting at a greater acceptance of LGBTQ rights has not moved to change church doctrine on the issue, maintained that homosexuality is “a sin,” but noted: “It’s also a sin to lack charity with one another.”
Read: How to be 18 years old again for only $2 million a year: one tech millionaire’s quest to “reboot” his body. (Businessweek )
NEWS
What else is brewing
Tesla
reported record profits yesterday and said it would work to try to speed up its car production.
Chevron
will buy back $75 billion of its stock after scoring mega profits last year.
Microsoft
suffered a global cloud outage that briefly locked users out of multiple Microsoft 365 services, including Teams and Outlook, yesterday morning.
The glitch
that wreaked havoc on New York stock trading on Tuesday morning was caused by a “manual error” involving a disaster recovery system that wasn’t reset at the start of the day, the NYSE said.
The SEC
is finally making moves to ban conflicts of interest by entities that create asset-backed securities, a practice that helped cause the 2008 financial crisis.
BREW'S BETS
Going ape: Scientists designed this quiz
to test your ability to understand great apes’ body language.
Earn college credits: Hank and John Green, the venerable geeks of the internet, launched a new site
that allows you to take courses from Arizona State University and earn actual college credits.
Take the easy way out. Puzzles
for “people who don’t have time for the hard ones.”
All-star status: The experts reviewed the stats, and these credit cards
stand out from the lineup thanks to their strong sign-up bonuses. Check out the 5 winners .*
*This is sponsored advertising content.
GAMES
The puzzle section
Brew Mini: Today’s puzzle was a bit more challenging—Neal solved it in 1:53. Can you beat that? Try here .
Three headlines and a lie
Three of these headlines are real and one is faker than your to-do list the week before a vacation. Can you spot the odd one out?
Rare “watermelon” comet is expected to pass
by Earth this summer, but the colorblind population won’t be able to see it
Swedish government moves
to get rid of permits needed for dancing
Stolen hot dog statue returned
to West Virginia restaurant owner
The lights have been on at a Massachusetts school for over a year
because no one can turn them off
AROUND THE BREW
Start traveling for free
Start traveling for free
Want to travel more? What if we could help you do it for free? Money with Katie's travel rewards series
teaches you how to use credit card points for your next trip.
Are you ready for tax season? Do you know how to prepare for a recession? Are you investing enough for retirement? If you answered “no” to any of these questions, then you need Money Scoop. Subscribe for free.
Still waiting on the couch you ordered? Register for CFO Brew’s virtual event
on finance team preparedness in the face of supply chain disruptions.

{
    "Date": "Thu, 26 Jan 2023 04:49:56 -0500 (EST)",
    "From": "Morning Brew <crew@morningbrew.com>",
    "Subject": "\u2615 I am No. 4",
    "List-Unsubscribe": "<https://link.morningbrew.com/oc/60cc134ee9902d6af67208d7i2qls.15yu/021e3626>, <mailto:unsubscribe_20230126044956.30360880.54390@mx.sailthru.com>",
}
Snippet:
What&#39;s next for that burning mansion... January 26, 2023 View Online | Sign Up |
Shop Morning Brew TOGETHER WITH Revela Good morning. Welp—looks like we were wrong about the prospect of snow
Labels:
['UNREAD', 'CATEGORY_UPDATES', 'INBOX']
